---
layout: post
title: Importance of web analytics
categories: 
img: image-5.png
categories: [Google Analytics, Web Analytics]
---

Numbers are very important to measure any business. Numbers are very hard to ignore because they are easy to compare and measure the business growth. This is great, how to measure your website performance? Is your website getting you the business? Is your Facebook page generating you the business? You cannot simply measure the likes, reviews and rating and think that we are getting the business. 

It is very important to measure the website traffic, setting up the goals and measuring the conversion rate for the business.

WEBSITE ANALYTICS
Website analytics can track the below things:
From which source the traffic is originating?
Is the traffic generating you the leads?
What is the best age group, time, & day for you to post on your website?
Keywords which the users are using to come on the website?
Which types of posts generating you the leads or traffic to the website?

USAGE OF CONTENT AND KEYWORDS ON THE WEBSITE
Once we start tracking the website visitors, we need to optimize the website content based on our target audience. The content of the website needs to be clearly defined and what the brand is. Your analytics will give you an idea either you are on the right track and also, where to use the right keywords and content.

OPTIMIZING THE WEBSITE AND ON-PAGE SEO
After we start analysing the website visitors, the first step is to optimize the titles and meta descriptions of the site. Create specific sections for the site which should match to the theme. Through the use of internal linking & the directory structure, it helps the site to appear for the more relevant keywords and it will help the visitors to find the right content on the website.

IMPORTANCE OF WEB ANALYTICS ON THE PPC
The next step is to plan the content & design for the campaigns based on the age group. Also, based on the behaviour of the user and the time spent on the site we can optimize the keywords. We can retarget the website visitors using the Remarketing campaigns to influence the users to purchase the product.

IMPORTANCE OF WEB ANALYTICS ON THE POSTS
When you are ready with the content & design based on your analysis the other important thing you need to know is the best performing platform, day, and time. Are thinking where to get this data from? You need not worry to get about it because you can get all these data from the web analytics. 

CONCLUSION
The important thing to remember about web analytics is to properly set up. Once you have analytics in place and start collecting the website visitors your job is not done. You need to continuously measure your target audience, website visitors, their time spent on the site, goals and either the visitors are giving you the business or not. If you cannot turn the data into your business decisions then all these numbers left meaning less.

